---
layout: post
title:      "CLI Project "
date:       2019-02-12 22:06:44 +0000
permalink:  cli_project
---


So while in the process of my CLI project I hit multiple obstacles, some presenting more of a problem than others. One of the first problems i encountered was what i wanted to do in general and how i was going to go about achieveing my goal. I knew we had to make an interactive project that was at least two levels of abstraction deep so I thouhgt a interactive menu for a popular retailer would be accesable and useful. I chose to make an interactive CLI for the drinks from the starbucks website. The next issue I encountered was the fact there was no API for my chosen site, and while this was a problem of my own making it still presented me with unique complications that a website with a API would not, mainly how do i go about interacting with this site without the designers intending it. Luckily the website was designed ideintically over the multiple pages I needed to scrape meaning I had less of an issue than if there was differintation between objects in the HTML. The next issue I had was how i was going to itteratte over the data, originally chosing to create arrays of items being scraped rather than creating individual objects and inserting them into an array. This proved to be incorrect causing me to have to reconfigure both the logical and user side of the code i had previously written. While frustrating it was a good learning experience, sometimes a working solution is not the best possible solution. After working out the logical changes on my scraping driven content it was much simpler modifying the menu to generate itself based off the newly created coffee objects than parsing out a array of multiple objects. The added benfit of having an object based list was I was able to load all of the scraping dependant data at the initialization of my program rather than when a user called a specifc data set, meaning I had much less latency between choices in my main and sub menus. This was a fun and challenging project, aside from some hardware based technical dificulties I found it smooth work both by myself and the couple one on one sessions brainstorming with my cohort lead. While i realized being asked questions about my code is much different than explaining it to someone at my own pace i feel confident i understand the logic behind my code as well as how to relay that infomation more acurately than when i had originally started this project. Im looking forward to the next Sinatra project.
