---
layout: post
title:      "Tips for the cultural interview process"
date:       2020-02-25 22:55:16 +0000
permalink:  tips_for_the_cultural_interview_process
---

For this blog ill share a couple tips ive learened throughout the last few months ive been interviewing. While the technical interview process will be much more demanding of your knowledge as a developer, the cultural interview process can be just as much of a part of landing a job. This is doubly so if you are applying for a junior developer position as they will have the most possible applicants, usually all around the same level of aptitude and job experience. 

* For the first tip, make sure you are selling yourself particularly as a developer, even if your previous experience is in a non related or even non technical field. I personally am transfering over from the food service industry, and after speaking with a few interviewers I had a secondary cultural review process with another coach who mentioned a flaw that I had overlooked in my interview speach. I had previouslly been stressing my background in culinary, as that I was a previous culinary individual with a newly emerging interest and career change in mind for development work. While this may be the truth, it was stressing the wrong elemnts of my background and generally would paint me as an inexperienced individual who would need excessive training comparatively to the other applicants for this job. I have since remedied this problem by chaning the way i reference myself, now saying that i am a developer with a previous history in the food service industry. While it may seem insignifigant, its important that you lead with how you would like your potential employers to see you, as most people will place you into a category within the first few minutes of meeting you. 

* My second tip would be to have a project you especially liked, but that also gave you some dificulty that you were able to solve. While they may not get into the technical details specifically, they will generally be looking to you to show how you were able to solve a problem and what mental ways you have for dealing with dificult situations. This also applies to how you may have dealt with a dificult partner or cohort member while performing inside of a group project, specifically how you went about handing a difference of opionion or a dissenting opinion in regards to code you had written or a way you went about solving a problem.

* My final tip would be to remain positive, and answer every question to your best ability. The last thing you want to do is to let a question get you visibly frustrated, and avoid pausing for long durations or stalling especially if it requries you to say things like "uhh" or "well". If need be, it can be helpful to write out a couple talking points on a notecard to keep handy with you during interviews, as this can help kick start your memory or break you out of a mental blank when trying to think back to your time during the bootcamp. Ive found this to be especially helpful in regards to talking about a specific technical project, where it keeps answers short and consise rather than long winded and drawn out. Most people performing cultural interviews will not be as well technically versed as those providing a skill interview and may become bored or confused by an in depth technical response to what amounts to a cultural question. 

Hopefully these steps provide some insight and help in regards to performing well in a cultural interview, the main thing to take away is that preperation and foresight can be incredibly helpful even when performing a non technical interview. Keeping in mind the companys culture and how they go about business will be infinitely more beneficial than coming into an interview cold and trying to wing the answers from memory. 
